RHDEVDOCS-7692: Content creation for GitOps 1.19.5 RN (#114595)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-release-notes-1-19-5.adoc

Reviewer: Need an entry for https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/GITOPS-9961

Author: Fixed, added the content here @varshab1210.

// Module included in the following assembly:
//
// * release_notes/gitops-release-notes-1-19.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="gitops-release-notes-1-19-5_{context}"]
= Release notes for {gitops-title} 1.19.5

[role="_abstract"]

{gitops-title} 1.19.5 is available on {OCP} 4.14, 4.16, 4.17, 4.18, 4.19, 4.20, and 4.21.

[id="errata-updates-1-19-5_{context}"]
== Errata updates

[id="RHSA-XXXX:NNNN-gitops-1-19-5-security-update-advisory_{context}"]
=== RHSA-XXXX:NNNN - {gitops-title} 1.19.5 security update advisory

Issued: 2026-XX-NN

The list of security fixes that are included in this release is documented in the following advisory:

* link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-XXXX:NNNN[RHSA-XXXX:NNNN]

If you have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in the default namespace, run the following command to view the container images in this release:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe deployment openshift-gitops-operator-controller-manager -n openshift-gitops-operator
----

[id="fixed-issues-1-19-5_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

GitOps Operator annotation copying behavior fixed::

> Before this update, the {gitops-title} Operator copied all annotations from the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR) onto its generated resources, such as, Roles and RoleBindings. When the Argo CD CR was managed by a central Argo CD instance, copied tracking annotations, such as, `tracking-id` and `installation-id` caused the central instance to incorrectly claim ownership and prune the sub-resources. The {gitops-title} Operator applies only its own default annotations and no longer copies annotations from the parent CR, preventing accidental resource deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before this update, the {gitops-title} Operator copied all annotations from the Argo CD Custom Resource (CR) onto its generated resources, such as, Roles and RoleBindings. When the Argo CD CR was managed by a central Argo CD instance, copied tracking annotations, such as, `argocd.argoproj.io/tracking-id` and `argocd.argoproj.io/installation-id` caused the central instance to incorrectly claim ownership and marked the sub-resources for pruning. The {gitops-title} Operator now sets its own default annotations on resources it creates and does not copy any annotation from the ArgoCD CR, preventing accidental resource deletion.
```

Author: Fixed.
